HO: Priority Sector & Financial Inclusion Division
4th Floor, West Wing, Plot No. 4, Sector 10, Dwarka, New Delhi-75
(Priority Sector Department)
1
September 08, 2020
PSFID/PRIORITY SECTOR CIRCULAR NO. 64/ 2020
REG: CENTRAL SECTOR SCHEME FOR FINANCING FACILITY UNDER
'AGRICULTURE INFRASTRUCTURE FUND' (AIF)
FREQUENTLY ASKED QUESTIONS (FAQs)
Guidelines regarding Central Sector Scheme for financing facility under ‘Agriculture
Infrastructure Fund (AIF)’ have been circulated vide PSFID/Priority Sector Circular
No. 58/ 2020 dated 24.08.2020.
In this regard, based on guidelines received from Department of Agriculture
Cooperation and Farmers Welfare (DAC&FW) and for the convenience of users,
Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ) on AIF are enclosed as Annexure.
All field functionaries are advised to ensure compliance of the scheme guidelines
and to be proactive and garner fresh business under the scheme.
All Inspecting Officials are advised to note the guidelines to ensure its compliance. In
case of noncompliance of above mentioned guidelines the issue of non-compliance
may be flagged/ reported to the competent authority for taking further action in the
matter.
(ARUN SHARMA)
GENERAL MANAGER
5149609
15-09-2026 10:39

-- 1 of 5 --

HO: Priority Sector & Financial Inclusion Division
4th Floor, West Wing, Plot No. 4, Sector 10, Dwarka, New Delhi-75
(Priority Sector Department)
2
ANNEXURE
Frequently Asked Questions on the Central Sector Scheme for financing
facility under Agriculture Infrastructure Fund' (AIF)
Q1. Whether Processing Units are also covered under the scheme?
Ans. The scheme is limited to primary processing units. Advanced processing
activities are not a part of the scheme. However, some components of such
processing units such as warehouse, cold storages, pack- houses, collection
centers etc. can get benefit of Agriculture Infrastructure Fund.
Q2. What is primary processing and what kind of activities are included in
primary processing?
Ans. Primary processing involves cutting, cleaning, packaging, storage and
refrigeration of raw foods to ensure that they are not spoilt before they reach the
consumer. These minimally processed foods retain the original properties i.e.
nutrition, physical, sensory and chemical properties as the unprocessed form and
are ready for further processing by the secondary food processing industry.
Primary processing examples include drying, threshing, winnowing and milling
grain, pasteurisation of milk, grading and sorting of grain, refrigeration or drying of
meat/ vegetables, shelling nuts etc. and are a necessary step for ensuring food
safety before the food is consumed.
Q3. Is Cashew proceeding eligible under the scheme?
Ans. Primary Processing of Cashew as a post-harvest management project is
also included as eligible project under the scheme of Agriculture Infrastructure
Fund.
Q4. What is the implementation period of the scheme?
Ans. The scheme will be operational from 2020-21 to 2029-30. However, the loan
disbursement period will be between 2020-21 and 2023-24. Interest subvention and
credit guarantee for loan will be applicable only for 7 years from the date of first
disbursement of loan.
Q5. What is the Interest Subvention cost being borne by the Government?
Ans. All loans up to a limit of Rs. 2.00 Crores under this financing facility will have
interest subvention of 3% per annum. This subvention will be available for a
maximum period of 7 Years. In case of loans beyond Rs. 2.00 Crores, the interest
subvention will be limited up to Rs. 2.00 Crores.
Q6. What is the moratorium period for the project under the scheme?
Ans. The moratorium period will vary from project to project and it is minimum six
months and maximum two years.
5149609
15-09-2026 10:39

-- 2 of 5 --

HO: Priority Sector & Financial Inclusion Division
4th Floor, West Wing, Plot No. 4, Sector 10, Dwarka, New Delhi-75
(Priority Sector Department)
3
Q7. Whether the subvention will be allowed for moratorium period of the
project?
Ans. The subvention will be available for a maximum period of seven years which
also includes moratorium period. (Overall availability for subvention is 07 years).
Q8. Whether there is cap of minimum or maximum loan quantum under AIF
Scheme?
Ans. The scheme does not have minimum or maximum loan cap. However,
maximum loan quantum on which the benefit of interest subvention is applicable is
up to Rs. 2.00 Crores.
Q9. What is the Credit Guarantee coverage available for eligible borrower?
Ans. Credit guarantee coverage will be available for eligible borrowers from this
financing facility under Credit Guarantee Fund Trust for Micro and Small
Enterprises (CGTMSE) scheme for Loan up to Rs. 2.00 Crores. The fee for this
coverage will be paid by the government. In case of FPOs the credit guarantee may
be availed from the facility covered under FPO promotion scheme fo DAC&FW.
Q10. Can the eligible entity choose a project other than mentioned in the
scheme under Agriculture Infrastructure Fund?
Ans. The scheme will facilitate setting up and modernization of key elements of
the agri value chain. The mentioned infrastructures in the guidelines are indicative
in nature. Other viable agriculture infrastructure projects under similar category, part
from the mentioned indicative projects are also eligible for the scheme benefits.
Q11. What is the process flow of the scheme?
Ans. The process flow is as under:-
a) The applicant will register on the online portal after which he/ she will receive
registration credentials.
b) After getting the credentials, beneficiary can apply for loan through the online
portal by filling an application form available on the portal.
c) Along with the application, soft copy of Detailed Project Report (DPR) and
related documents will be uploaded on the portal by the applicant.
d) The application along with DPR will then be forwarded to the lending
institution opted by the applicant for appraisal.
e) The lending institution will appraise the project and decide whether to
sanction loan or reject the application based on the viability of the project.
f) After the disbursal of loan to the beneficiary by lending institute, interest
subvention and credit guarantee fee will be released by GOI to the lending
institute and CGTMSE respectively.
5149609
15-09-2026 10:39

-- 3 of 5 --

HO: Priority Sector & Financial Inclusion Division
4th Floor, West Wing, Plot No. 4, Sector 10, Dwarka, New Delhi-75
(Priority Sector Department)
4
Q12. How much time will it take to get the decisions form the lending
institutions on the loan application?
Ans. The time limit to convey the decision on the loan application to the applicant
is set for a maximum period of 60 days from the date of application of the loan.
Q13. What is the terms of interest subvention for such accounts which
become NPA?
Ans. The subvention will be allowed only till the account is under standard
category. Further, if the account slips into NPA, no subvention will be allowed
during the period account remains under NPA category. The subvention will be
allowed from the date of upgradation of the account to standard category. Once the
account is upgraded to standard category it will be eligible to receive the subvention
for the period in which the account was under NPA Category.
Q14. Is there any capital subsidy available from the central government
under the scheme?
Ans. There is no capital or margin subsidy under the scheme but central
government will provide 3% interest subvention per annum upto an outstanding
loan limit of Rs. 2.00 crores and credit guarantee fee for loan amount upto Rs. 2.00
crores.
Q15. Is interest subvention and credit guarantee available beyond loan of
Rs. 2.00 Crores under the scheme?
Ans. The interest subvention and credit guarantee is restricted for a loan up to Rs.
2.00 Crores.
Q16. What is the project management and hand holding support available under
the scheme?
Ans. Following project management and hand holding support is available:
(a) An online platform www.agriinfra.dac.gov.in has been made available to
provide information and loan sanctioning facility. It will enable all the
qualified entities to apply for loan under the fund.
(b) The system will also provide benefits such as transparency of interest
rates offered by multiple banks, scheme details including interest
subvention and credit guarantee offered etc.
(c) At the back end, the platform will also provide multiple views of
dashboards across district; state and national level PMUs to monitor the
total sanctioned amount and number of borrowers, total interest
subvention benefit availed, loan statement summary, demographic and
geographic mix of borrowers and type of projects etc.
(d) Farmers Welfare Programme Implementation Society under DAC&FW
will provide Project Management Unit (PMU) support to the scheme at
the central level and state PMUs of PM Kisan at state level. Services of
5149609
15-09-2026 10:39

-- 4 of 5 --

HO: Priority Sector & Financial Inclusion Division
4th Floor, West Wing, Plot No. 4, Sector 10, Dwarka, New Delhi-75
(Priority Sector Department)
5
knowledge partners will be used to identify clusters including export
clusters and gaps in supply chains to target projects and support for
preparation of viable project reports.
Q17. Can loan be availed by offline mode?
Ans. Yes, loan can be availed through offline mode but it is mandatory for lending
institutions to make its entry on the online platform in due course of time to get the
benefits of AIF.
Q18. Will the scheme encourage convergence with other schemes?
Ans. Agriculture Infrastructure Fund Scheme is a top- up scheme along with all
other available state and central government schemes. Any grant or subsidy
available under any present or future scheme for Central/ State Government can be
availed for projects in addition to this financing facility. In cases of capital subsidy
such amount shall be considered as promoter’s contribution. However, a minimum
of 10% of the project cost shall be mandatory as promoter’s contribution.
Q19. What is the linkage of scheme with Public Financial Management
System (PFMS)?
Ans. Interest subvention and credit guarantee support will be released to the
banks and lending institutions through PFMS.
Q20. Is borrower’s contribution mandatory to become eligible under the scheme?
Ans. Yes, it is mandatory for borrowers to contribute atleast 10% of total project
cost irrespective of available capital subsidy.
Q21. Are public sector undertaking (PSU) organizations eligible to get the
benefit under the scheme?
Ans. PSUs are directly not eligible under the scheme, but projects sponsored by
them under PPP mode are eligible.
Q22. From which date onwards the borrowers will get the benefit of interest
subvention?
Ans. The loan under the eligible infrastructures whose first disbursement are
made on or after 8th July 2020 are eligible to get the benefit under the scheme.
Q23. Whether the computerization of institutions such as mandi board, PACS,
Cooperatives etc. can get the benefits under the scheme?
Ans. No, such projects are not covered.
Q24. Can beneficiaries apply directly for availing financing facility under this
scheme?
Ans. Yes, eligible beneficiaries can apply directly for availing financing facility
under this scheme. There is no requirement of prior scrutiny at any level. Such
applications may be considered by the banks. Timely MIS for such applications
shall be made available by respective banks to DLMC (Distt. Level Monitoring
Committee) and SLMC (State Level Monitoring Committee).
5149609
15-09-2026 10:39

-- 5 of 5 --

